welcome to another edition of after
impact I am your host Tom bill you and I
am here with the amazing the incredible
the almighty Agent Smith mr. bill you
sup homie how's it going do you think
people know why I do that
I really hope so but probably not from
the matrix seed it is Smith ha we have
put our dudes out in a long time
what the [__] they're up there this is
madness and again turd madness and I
apologize for the lack of
professionalism that that is evidenced
by our lack of little peeps but Cindy is
a remain to the rescue indeed alright
guys well while Cindy makes this hole
again we want to welcome you to the feed
we're gonna be talking about Maria
Sharapova today and if you want to do
the rest that is right
welcome to after impact this is the show
where we unpack the impact of this
week's episode with Maria Sharapova big
big star it's just amazing every time I
think about it I'm like very Sharapova
on the show yeah I mean legit yeah big
name an awesome person and it was really
cool to have her here on set and yeah it
was great there's a great interview so
we're gonna dive into it guys if you
haven't seen the episode highly
encourage it and before we don't jump
into that I want to just mention for
those of you who are on Facebook live
and YouTube live we're running a contest
right now the contest is refer a friend
to our YouTube channel and get them to
subscribe the prize which I think you
might be excited about is we are going
to fly you out from anywhere in the
world to Los Angeles for a day to hang
out with mr. bill you and the impact
Theory team word so it's a big prize you
get to come out here we'll take care of
flight we'll take care of accommodations
and you just get to be here learn from
Tom ask questions any questions that you
have see what we're doing behind the
scenes and really good feel for what
impact theory is all about indeed and
just to be really clear the way the
contest works is the more people that go
and subscribe and then drop your name
into the comments on that video it's
very specific video which we will put in
the comments here if you didn't already
say that the more people that go there
and put your name in the comments the
more chances or the more times you're
entered into the contest so you want to
get as many people as you can you will
notice there are a small handful of
people that are getting a lot of love
from their friends family followers but
it's print been pretty amazing and some
of them had so many that I called
[__] and I was like I'm looking
these [__] off and like I
started going through you seem like real
people David Kim is one of them David
Kim and then Oh his last names sounds
like three words put together I can't
remember enough to top my head but
yesterday he had just a gaggle of people
and I thought for sure this is a bot of
some kind yeah doesn't seem like it but
yes please get involved in the contest
please help us spread the word that's
what we're trying to do grow our YouTube
following we have an internal number of
a hundred and fifteen K wrecked by the
end of the month it looks like we're way
off from that and yeah but the content
deep shame well said the contest keeps
running for it's three weeks total so we
started to did a few days ago so now you
still got some time but go rally those
troops deadline is I believe the
thirteenth of October
sounds about right is that a Friday
that's a Friday is it really Friday
that's hilarious in October and October
come on now
Casey does this make it like a religious
holiday for her yes Friday the 13th in
October this is Casey's jam just a
marathon so it's madness Friday the 13th
okay let's dive into it Maria Sharapova
I'm sure most of you know world-famous
athlete also a great person she just
came out with a book which would she get
a copy of that and we should be sitting
here well can you have a copy while we
dig up that copy I will say that I'll
just give this right to the a camera
she's also the highest paid female
athlete period like not female tennis
player the female athlete so this woman
has done an incredible job of turning
her success in to success in multiple
arenas there is yeah
really cool and she also has a she's an
entrepreneur she has a company called
sugar Papa where they make gummies and
chocolate and all kinds of things this
is the book unstoppable I have not read
it Tom you've read it I have read it
having read the book and getting a
chance to sit down and interview Maria
what do you think it is about her that
has made her such a dominant athlete all
right I swear this was not a setup I
didn't know you're gonna ask that
question but this is probably my
favorite thing to talk about with her
this woman is the title of the book is
perfect it is absolutely so descriptive
of her so at five and a half she tore
her fingernail off she like stepped off
a ledge or some like curb or something
and fell and when she got up she
realized oh [__] like there was blood
everywhere she's five and a half dude
she's bleeding everywhere and her dad's
like whoa we have to get you back home
your mom's gonna have a stroke if I take
you to practice and she was like
absolutely not like I want to go play
and I just thought whoa like I I wasn't
like that until I was in my mid-20s so
what were five and a half year old is
like that I mean you fall down and
scrape your elbow and you're crying yep
and you just want cuddles and like I was
the king of that [__] when I was a kid
so look I'm not a big believer in nature
at all so I really want to believe that
somehow someway like her dad or her mom
instilled like some steely Russian mojo
in her versus it just means she was born
that way but I don't know man maybe she
was like that's her predilection like
the way that she was because look we all
have a bent towards something now what
you do with that to me is the only thing
that really matters but it would be
foolish to say that we don't have a bent
in some direction we're gonna get early
winds so she clearly had early winds and
just like mental toughness and then
she's built on that she talks a lot
about that later like always being
younger than everybody it really made
her not try to attach to them for
comfort or anything like that because
she wasn't getting it because she never
felt like she belonged and always felt
like an outsider just because of her age
and so that and like when she first came
shouldn't speak English
so like the mental toughness and in the
book her coach talks about there's the
game
and then there's the game and he said
she was great at both and the game in
the game being she was good at the game
of tennis and then she was good at the
game of like getting inside her
opponents heads mentally before they
even walked onto the court and dude I
love that so much when people beat
themselves before they even walk in do
you follow em ma I don't know all right
well there was this guy he's he's still
alive I just don't think he's fighting
anymore but anderson spider Silva and
watching this guy fight was unreal until
it wasn't but let's set that aside for a
second like when he was in his prime it
was it was unreal like people came into
the ring defeated and they just thought
I can't beat this guy and what I love
though is it it started because everyone
took him for granted nobody like he he I
think he was in Pride anybody that's a
deep MMA fan will know like but he was
in something other than the UFC and he
was just like cleaning up but then he
came to the UFC nobody knew who he was
so he was like the the you know the guy
that like you're supposed to walk
through to get to the next match for
that's how people thought of him and he
just came in and picked him apart and it
was so surreal to watch and people used
to say watching him fight he must be in
the [__] matrix because he'd like
dodge your punch and then hit you like
and D even look that hard and people
just like more and they crumble to the
floor and you'd watch it going I don't
understand like he didn't hit him that
hard but he always hit you from some
weird [__] angle that you didn't see
coming right on the chin and I remember
watching footage of him train and he
would like there would be a tennis ball
instead of a punching bag there'd be a
tennis ball and he'd [__] like wallop
it they'd be moving really fast and he'd
hit it and I just thought wow all right
so that like when you get to that level
and you can just decimate people because
what you've done is impressive your
mental game is so strong that people are
fighting themselves before the match
even begins and the how that's so cool
about her and just like hearing how she
and this was something I'm so pissed
when I was rewatching the episode for
this after impact I was so pissed with
myself that I didn't follow up on it in
the middle of the interview and it for
whatever reason in the interview didn't
hit me and then rewatching it it did and
that was when she says Oh long before I
was playing professionally I was
watching and listening to the commentary
of people talking about the tennis
players and what makes him great and
what their attributes were and all that
which I should have pushed on to be like
basically watching tape right so even as
like essentially a little kid she's like
obsessing about the game of tennis and
she was like you know I would watch them
and I would listen and they would say oh
they can hit high balls they react
really fast they can slide well on the
court and because she was talking about
clay courts and she said I didn't have
any of those skills and so she knew that
the thing that was gonna make her
dominant which is out working people and
you know my fetish for that I have an
absolute all-consuming fetish with
people that win by outworking yeah you
do that's awesome yeah I looked that I
noted that to you is that when she said
that she's this kind of intimidating
force or maybe you mentioned an
interview and that people not only do
people beat themselves before they stuff
in the court but even if they're winning
she's like I'm never going to give it to
you I'm never gonna roll over and I
think that adds that that that mystique
or yes right yes that she's gonna fight
to the last point even if she's behind
yeah that's mental toughness man yeah
you're like so if if I were in her shoes
and I can't say that this is what she's
thinking but from the outside this is
kind of how it feels but if I were in
her shoes exactly what I would do is
okay I'm losing so now this is no longer
about winning this is about how do you
build your mentality back in the moment
to get back to a position where you can
have the confidence so even if like
mathematically I can't make it happen
then I'm still gonna practice that
evolution of going from being an
immensely bad place to being an
immensely good place and I remember
giving the example before on camera when
I interviewed I think it was Noah Kagan
and I like [__] up in the beginning
and I blanked on something and I was
really trying to vamp to get back to it
and then the vamp went on so long that
like everybody was really [__]
uncomfortable and I was like okay I'm
now at a deficit cuz we had like let's
thirty people in the audience I'm at a
deficit and I can either clam up and
shut down and curl up in the fetal
position and just try to survive this
interview or I can say you know what
[__] all right I'm I'm Way
behind the 8-ball now and I'm going to
acknowledge it and I actually said in
the interview because I don't even
remember how it came out but it was like
somebody asked a question but he may
have it because this is back when we
used to take a lot of audience questions
like that they asked or he asked me you
know like what was the time where you
made a mistake and I was like hey you
guys were here for it and let me tell
you what I was doing mentally and my
mental process was all right I'm Way
behind the eight-ball and now this is
all about crawling back and mentally
practicing because that's one of the
things people have a hard time is how do
you practice when the stakes are high
yeah so I'm gonna practice because
there's not no such thing as performance
everything is practiced that's how I
look at it so I'm gonna practice now
crawling from a deficit back to zero and
then zero to extraordinary by the end of
this interview so even though it got off
to a super rocky start I didn't let it
throw me off mentally and that's what
you see in her game so if if that were
me that would become that game of how do
I reinstate my winners mentality by the
end of this it's so so powerful and
something that I've learned from
watching you because I feel like I've
struggled with it and I know a lot of
people struggle with it too it's like
you get into that state where alright I
made a mistake this thing is ruined
like there's no coming back right but
you but yours really good at saying
there's always time to come back there's
always time to build yourself back up or
you know just there's there's a long
timeline and you're not looking at it
that way a lot of times you're thinking
of just that moment it's gone forever so
that's so important dude and so the
words that I've always put around that
or don't judge yourself through the lens
of a moment because in any one moment
you can [__] up right it's the whole
concept of any given Sunday so on any
given Sunday you don't need to like she
says in the episode you don't have to be
better than everybody what it means at
the tournament right you just have to be
better than the person across the net
from you at that moment that was awesome
it's a great thing and I think she's
quoting Andre Agassi if I'm not mistaken
that's right
and so that whole concept of alright she
was talking about sort of a positive
side right don't let them intimidate you
because you only have to be better than
them at that
yeah but then I'll also say to your
point like there's the flip side of that
coin which is if you [__] up don't worry
about it like the moments gonna be gone
and if you let that then deteriorate
future performances because you're
obsessively thinking about it and you
let it somehow become a part of your
identity and it says that you're a worse
player or whatever then you really will
be a worse player I mean it's ridiculous
like how the mind works
yeah all right guys we have a lot to get
through in this episode if you have
questions please send them our way
so that Tom can dive into it regarding
the episode it looks like we have a
couple so I'm gonna jump into it first
off couple shout outs don't know their
names but Brazil is in the comments
Dublin so Shawn if you could include
their names to Brazil Dublin Trinidad
Tobago and New York nice in the house
all right here's a comment to be in New
York by the way so and this is next week
there's licking your eyes for
confirmation Thursday we're doing an
event in NYC we don't have the exact
location yet bear with me keep an eye on
that IG feed that Facebook page we'll be
announcing it but we'll be doing a live
meet-and-greet in New York next Thursday
be there or be square nice that's on
Facebook oh there it is word up alright
so coming to you in the live feed will
be exactly what you need to get the
Eventbrite to go and register we do the
reason we don't have the event is car
the location is we need to know how many
people are coming that'll determine
which of the location we go with all
right there it is alright here's a
question from Jumaane our friend Maria
seems like a person that can take the
hits how can you develop a mindset that
can take jokes negative comments and
hard situations and almost laugh at them
well so it's interesting this whole
notion of practicing there's no
performance it's all practice like in
the beginning when somebody if you're
insecure and somebody taps into one of
your insecurities it is going to cause a
neurological cascade that is not
pleasant and what you have to do is go
okay I'm gonna practice not letting this
make it to my face right and as
forget who said this but they said to
force for you to become numb to
something first you have to go through
it I thought that's actually really
interesting like if you want to get numb
to criticism first you have to be
criticized and you have to practice
dealing with that so if that's your
thing and people happen to click into an
insecurity that you have what you want
to do is look at those moments rather
than like a moment to defend your honor
it's a moment to practice not letting it
even register on your face that it
bothered you which is usually the moment
that you actually robbed a bully of
their power so you either have to like
be prepared to throw down which is
actually a pretty reasonable response to
a bully or show that just doesn't
[__] bother you so you'll have to
decide case-by-case sometimes it really
is a punch to the mouth is the only
thing that's the appropriate reaction
but most of the time the appropriate
reaction is just it doesn't faze you so
practicing that letting the sting happen
but very rapidly getting over that
letting it go practicing not letting it
bother you really practicing just on a
like physiological level then I'm not
gonna let this manifest in any sort of
outwardly way and that is something that
you can practice and so that's what I do
I just practice practice practice
not run from the criticism not obsess
about it but practice how rapidly can I
really defuse this mentally and
emotionally so that it doesn't bother me
so even if for instance you keep it from
reading on your face but that night you
[__] obsess about it and you can't
sleep like you're still losing yeah so
at that point whether it's through a
meditative practice whatever you need to
do find other things you're proud of in
your life or this is actually what I do
I go how much of this is true Oh
80% of that's true it's actually a
well-placed a bit of criticism fantastic
what I'm gonna focus on now is thank you
thank you for pointing that out and I'm
gonna make changes now I'm depending on
the person I may or may not acknowledge
it to them because it may only fuel them
to be like you're absolutely right
especially in the early phases as you
get better at that where it's really
sincere and you actually are grateful
for that you can use it but that's an
advanced technique anyway that night I
would be like this is actually real
criticism and that's why it's bothering
me so much because it's real and I know
that
I can get better and I don't judge
myself to the lens of a moment I judged
myself through the lens of a lifetime
I'm not gonna feel badly about that I'm
not gonna waste time feeling badly
because that doesn't serve me yeah and
the fact that I can get better at
anything at any time and that it's all
my fault I'm in control and I get it
like choose different different ways to
spend my time to actually acquire that
skill that really lowers that sense of
weight or pain I don't even I don't know
how to describe that emotion shame like
whatever that is feeling badly about
yourself it instantly goes away from me
when I remember oh I can get good at
that if I choose to that's awesome what
do you think about doing activities
where you're completely out of your
element it's brand-new to you you have
to have a beginner's mindset you're
gonna fall down look foolish people are
gonna make fun of you to develop that
like thicken that skin against criticism
man how very stoic of you so and by that
I mean stoic philosopher I forget which
one it was Ryan holiday if you're in the
comments as he so often are tell us who
it is but there was one guy I can't
remember who and he was wealthy and
well-respected and so what he realized
he had was a fear of losing all that and
so every so often he would in fact that
maybe conflating two stories there was
one guy who addressed ridiculously to
remind himself that like people can
judge you all they want but like who you
are is all that really matters and then
like who you are as a person and then
the other guy would go and live like
literally on the street and he would
sleep on the street he would have no
worldly possessions for whatever period
of time a day or two days and he said
every time he did that he would think to
himself this is what I'm afraid of so
it's like nobody's gonna rush that's not
an ideal or optimized way to live but
when you force yourself to go through it
you really do come out the other side
and look I haven't done that particular
thing but like not eating you come out
the other side going yeah okay it just
wasn't that bad so and that I think is a
really really not easy but direct and
simple way to do what you're talking
about which is confront it
do it practice it and I think that it is
very very usable to thicken your skin to
recognize that almost that you don't
even like need that thick of skin to
deal with it it's just not that big of a
deal yeah awesome all right so at this
point you have interviewed several
world-class athletes both on impact
theory and in sidequest
I'm just gonna list off couple names so
Michael Strahan Terrell Owens Laird
Hamilton Sugar Ray Leonard some really
amazing athletes in all different sports
I want to ask you see any similarities
between the way that Maria thinks and
the way that these other champions think
definitively in fact the one thing I
will say all the ones that you named all
of them were the result of work ethic
like these were people that just pushed
and pushed and pushed and didn't stop
and kept going and wanted to get better
always looking to improve and that was a
thing like really really consistently I
mean Terrell was a really cool example
of like dude nobody thought I was gonna
be anything like I went to a remote
college like nobody wanted to draft me
same with Strahan he went to the college
that would take him that he could get a
scholarship from and like they were just
hell-bent to learn to get better to push
themselves and then my favorite story
about Strahan he watches the movie the
matrix this is how Strahan and I
connected by the way so I bring up the
matrix and he was like that's like my
[__] favorite movie that movie
changed my life and I was like all right
you have to tell me how and he said so
the year that I set the record for the
most sacks was after watching the matrix
and I realized I was holding myself back
the my belief that once I got one sack I
could never get a second one
he said that was stopping me and then I
said wait a second you know do you think
that's air you're breathing he was like
that line just kept going in my head and
I realized just because I got one why
can't I get two why couldn't I get three
and so then that made him play with more
aggression made him play all the way
through the game he didn't relax when he
got that first one and he said that
really changed everything and was how he
ended up setting the record and it's
just like you hear that in all of them
not the reference to the matrix but like
that sense of like
to believe that they're capable of
something as long as they're willing to
work to attain it that that that's what
make the grades man and look there
there's one exception that really [__]
with all my rules and that's Bo Jackson
and bo Jackson was like it just always
came easily to me and I hate that about
him I'll be honest with you I hate that
about
but he's interesting I don't know if
you've watched any like there's a thirty
four thirty documentary one yes
yeah but he's um he also works at it to
I don't know if you saw that he was like
he was as archery yeah the archery with
his feet did you ever see him doing that
I don't remember I don't remember the
feet thing this was when he was doing
rehab to try to get back into the game
like that was one of the things to do
practice but anyway bo Jackson yeah
that's that's a whole different story
alright one of the things that Maria
said in this in this interview is don't
judge me by my successes judge me by how
many times I fell down and got back up
which I love by the way and she says
it's a Nelson Mandela claim right in
fact that's what she starts to book with
she was kind of yeah she was
paraphrasing or trying to remember that
quote and that really resonated with her
and I want to ask you does this connect
in any way to your concept I feel like
you're judging but yourself by having
the guts to go out and pursue something
big and then actually take steps toward
executing it um I would actually say
those are pretty different okay
so falling down and getting back up and
letting that be the measure of your
success is is amazing and I really
really hope is that inspirational
concept that helps people develop grit
and when you realize that it was said by
Nelson Mandela which by I'm reading his
biography now when I read that in fact
it was that quote I downloaded it that
second read the quote that starts her
book go download it onto audible and now
I'm I just started reading it yesterday
when you realize he's the one that said
it after everything he went through I
was like 27 years in jail man it's
[__] nuts yeah and to walk out and be
walking out and going like I have to let
go of all my anger all of my bitterness
if I'm gonna be able to really lead
people and do something in crowd
so yeah man that that's just like the
weight of those words coming from that
guy I hope everybody really puts that at
the center of their existence because so
many people are crippled by fear and
it's like once you embrace I'm going to
embarrass myself it's a foregone
conclusion I'm going to embarrass myself
I'm going to fail people are going to
make fun of me they're going to laugh me
and the only way to win is on a long
timeline the only way to win is to get
back up every time every time every time
and there's the famous quote that I
would almost be a little surprised if
somebody isn't already dropping into the
comment section which is fall down seven
times get up eight the problem is of
course you can't get up more times than
you fall down so but fall down seven
times get up seven times that's very
impressive yeah so that's it's it's so
simple and it's so powerful and the
other one is yeah just the other
concepts different okay yeah and it
seems like a lot of her happiness comes
from and I want to give her thoughts on
this it's less from actually winning the
tournament and getting the trophy and
more from knowing the amount of work
that she put in to get there seems like
she takes a lot of pride and she says in
the interview you know it's nice to look
over and see that trophy next to your
bed but then you think about you know
how tired you were and how sore you were
and how many times you pushed through to
get there and that seems like free takes
a lot of her hurt like fulfillment
really from dude that's identity man
yeah that is identity that's where real
fulfillment comes from because here's
the thing like imagine for a second
somebody attacks me like this always
makes me laugh like when people come
after me hard about diet
it's like mother [__] I lost 60 pounds
like there's and I've kept it off for
almost a decade
not quite yeah almost [__] it's almost a
decade that is in Santa Fe thank you so
it's like what are you trying to tell me
it's like I get it there are other paths
to heaven fantastic but to say that what
I'm saying doesn't make sense like are
you [__] III don't even understand
the attack it's like dude I'm not
guessing this is what I did
and so may if you're
Tech as it only worked once great but
like it worked
so once something works like all all the
hate in the world if when you're by
yourself you're alone and your thoughts
of who you are are positive no one can
touch you no one can touch you
conversely if when you're out in the
world and everyone is praising you and
saying that you're amazing but when
you're alone the [__] darkness comes
for you and you know you're a sham
you've got nothing the I have the chills
on my face the only thing that matters
is what you think about yourself when
you're by yourself in those quiet
moments man and that is I have the
chills in my face again that is like all
of your work should be about that like
every day am i doing the things like I
can't tell you how many times do you I
don't know why this week for some reason
every morning I'm like it's 4:30 a.m. no
one would know if I played video games
right now no no like that you guys would
never know right it's just soft enough
that if I spend a couple hours in the
morning playing video games as long as I
wasn't sitting in there with the
controller in my hand when you guys got
here like nobody would know I'm usually
at four hours before Lisa gets up so
even she wouldn't know but I would know
I would know that I'm not the person
that I say I am I'm not the person that
I want to become and so it's like it's
amusing to me the way that the impulse
runs through my head because it's like
Jesus like even this far into like my
journey there's still that weak little
voice that's like go ahead like it's
okay eat that right that happens to me
all the time
so I'm scary disciplined with my food
and I will [__] walk by a bag of like
tortilla chips or Doritos or a ding dong
a piece of cake and it's like go ahead
go ahead like nobody's looking nobody
will know so it's really funny but I'm
so obsessed with feeling good about
myself at 3:30 in the morning because
every time I make the choice to be the
I'll be proud to be the next time it's
3:30 in the morning and it's the gut
check of who I really am
that is the gift like honestly I want to
give everybody that is what this show is
about how do you get to the point we're
in those quiet moments when you're all
by yourself
that you're gonna feel really good about
who you are regardless of what anybody
says about you because you've had every
opportunity to be weak and you didn't
take it that's really powerful and and
something that just came together for me
and I know you've been talking about
this a long time so I'm surprised that
I'm just now getting it in this like
level of clarity but I think where a lot
of people struggle is they break down or
don't follow through because they don't
have a super super clearly defined
identity or of who they want to be so
like you just said that you could do
that but the vision of yourself and what
you say you are does not comply Curren
you know that these these are specific
things you don't play video games at two
hours in the morning you don't eat that
potato chip and I think we're a trap
that people can fall into and I think
I've fallen into it too is it's you have
sort of a notion if you want to be but
it's not that clearly defined so it's
easy to just rationalize little things
here and there or to not even think
about it and say this is okay when if
you had that really clear roadmap that
you would know it's not okay it would
just be an easy decision bright lines
yeah bright lines and here's why bright
lines work because the second you cross
over it you don't get to feel good about
yourself anymore and this man I don't
know if I'm doing a good job of
externalizing it like I don't know yet
the words to put around in fact somebody
Michelle I don't see will is he hiding
behind the column will will you write
this down for me to write a thing about
bright lines like how to really explain
this concept because when you have
bright lines and there are things that
you either do or don't do you trigger
and in fact you have to get good at
knowing how to reward yourself and
knowing how to punish yourself be
because that's what makes all of this
work is I really feel good at 3:30 in
the morning by myself when I make the
right choice it feels so good and this
is something that I've been trying to
it's come up a lot recently is all the
time I don't have the motivation Oh Tom
like I can't seem to find a passion like
what's the problem the problem is you're
not excited about anything you're not
excited about what's at the end of that
rainbow you're not exciting to [__] the
rainbow you're not excited about what is
at the end of that very hard road that
is before you so there's nothing at the
end of that that is worth going through
all the things you're going through to
get there and so halfway through you're
like why am I doing this that's what
[__] happened to me with money I
wasn't excited enough about money and
like god I get if you're that excited
about money then it might work and all
of my words may be total [__] I'm
just coming from the place of it wasn't
enough for me
I wasn't excited enough about money now
I found I was getting very excited about
things that money could do and once I
started focusing on that like whoa this
is what I want to facilitate this is a
dream I want to make come true then it
was it was really easy for me to go
[__] hard to show up at all hours of
the morning to bust ass because there
were very real concrete tangible people
that I loved and cared about that I
wanted to have an impact on and whether
that was mentally physically and those
have been the two drivers of my life
post-money were how do I help people
physically that I know love and care
about and how do I help people mentally
that I know love and care about like
change these things have a huge impact
on their life that is meaningful to me
and so that thing is exciting to me the
vision of becoming the person that I
would need to become to execute against
that is exciting to me knowing how to
reward myself and quite frankly [__]
punish myself for instance and I'm gonna
keep saying this out loud because I am I
I have not done what I needed to do to
make good on something I said I was
gonna do and that is not [__] okay
for me I said that we would have our
first comic book by October 1st I have a
whole slew of excuses as donors October
31st yes Wow I have even more time than
I thought [__] maybe there's still a
chance I moved to go
so that's such a mean thing I still have
time I I might be able to pull it off
now okay so [__] he just really gave me
a gift when I thought I wasn't gonna
make it just to finish that thought I
was like do I need to start confessing
to this because I'm [__] this up and
I'm not gonna meet my deadline and that
isn't okay that you have to be willing
to punish yourself when you miss things
to not feel good about that to own up to
the people that you respect and that you
want to respect you and to tell them
look I [__] up which by the way is a
long term beaver strike be respected
strategy in fact I'm gonna give a shout
out so this guy named Charlie what's his
real last name he goes were Huppert
Huppert so Charlie Huppert from instant
charisma in command charisma on command
thank you it's a YouTube channel go to
it now he came here yesterday he saw the
event that we came to the event that we
did super [__] cool guy came to the
event it was like hey I would love to
give you some advice on your YouTube
channel I was like dude I'll take
[__] a good idea from wherever I can
get it comes out to the house gives me
this whole thing I bring all that up
because he has a video on Adele about
how the way that she is so real and so
authentic over the long run and deers
people so even though it seems like
she's kind of throwing herself under the
bus all the time by just confessing to
things that seem like they wouldn't make
her seem cool but actually make her seem
cooler great video go there charisma on
command YouTube channel super [__] rad
I have no affiliation with him other
than he was really cool to us and came
yesterday and gave us some really
[__] great advice and then I watched
a [__] ton of his videos and they're
really good so go check them out but
when it's somebody that you want to
respect you you would think like
positioning yourself to be cool to
always look cool is the right answer and
it's really not like always owning it
always
there's no way after a year with me the
peopled be like oh he tries the sweeps
it under the rug when he [__] up he
doesn't own it like I've I [__] fall
over myself to own when I have screwed
up and it is my belief that in the long
run that's gonna be a win and a lot of
psychologists and researchers have found
that people people can't connect
with you if you're if you're perfect all
the time right there they actually
connect with you more if you're fallible
if you make mistakes
just super interesting super interesting
and now shout out another person drama
the founder of young and reckless if you
guys don't already know him go check it
out in fact he were lule I think he's
released or he will be releasing soon
the talk that he gave at our event which
was awesome and the reason it was
awesome
is it was so relatable and everyone in
the audience was like dude like that guy
made it feel so possible because he just
walk people through like the hard things
and things he was nervous about like you
want to talk about somebody that came
across super cool because he made
absolutely no effort to be cool so neat
to see ya so neat to see he's good
alright we have a couple comments and
shoutouts coming in we have Jim quick in
the comments my boy dude I was just
obsessing over your social feed and
totally missing you we haven't gone for
a burger in a distressingly long time so
I've got a hangout homey also I think
we're speaking at the same event that
tomorrow I'm going tomorrow about a fear
he may not be going till Saturday but
thrive and being thrive you're gonna be
in Vegas check it out but yeah Jim is
speaking there he actually put a content
and quoted you just now the only thing
that matters is what you think about
yourself when you're by yourself
hashtag wow nice thanks alright here's a
question this is one that I had - from
Stacey Lee on Facebook thanks Stacey her
question is Maria talks about repetition
repetition repetition it is so hard I
have a growth mindset and I listen to
you every day I've tried so hard
multiple times to wake up it's 5 a.m. to
work out meditate think at 8:00 etc but
after one week I am just exhausted
please shed some light on how to get
over that one-week hurdle a lot I
develop a bigger why oh well now we just
threw a monkey wrench so those are two
very different questions the one first
yeah the one that I haven't talked about
much is it is mechanical and this I
really Jared I really want people to
hear me on this right I [__] go to
bed early
yes right so look I get it I get Hero
points because I'm posting in the gym at
like 2:30 or 3:30 in the morning
but like hashtag I go to bed at 9:00 I
go to bed at 9:00 I don't use an alarm I
wake up when I wake up when I first made
the transition to not using an alarm I
slept for an ungodly number of hours so
except that for probably a couple months
you're gonna sleep so much
so here's here are my bright lines if
I've gotten more than five hours sleep
and I realize that I'm awake meaning I'm
not gonna be able to fall back asleep
easily because there are times you roll
over and you wrote hey I'm awake I don't
[__] look at the clock if I feel
tired I'm like I'm going to sleep I fall
back to sleep when I hit that point
where I'm like uh-huh I'm awake yeah
then I look at the clock and when I see
the clock
oh it happens to be 2:15 and I went to
bed at 9:00 that's over five hours so a
10 minute clock starts I have 10 minutes
to get out of bed which by the way if I
fall asleep in the 10 minutes great but
I don't give myself more than 10 minutes
at the 10 minute mark
I'm up I'm out of bed and I attacked my
day if I sleep for nine hours fantastic
and it you sleep until you don't need
sleep like guys I cannot stress enough
if you're looking at me right now and
you're saying hey whoa like this guy has
a lot of energy here is how I have a lot
of energy I prioritize sleep and I make
sure that I have good like my body can
produce ATP okay
mitochondria I eat well I exercise to
make sure that I'm able to produce the
energy that I need to do what I want to
do so take care of those two things
sleep
diet exercise if you do that then you're
not gonna be tired like you are right
now living in a state of fatigue sucks
it's deeply unpleasurable which is why
by the way I stopped using an alarm so
that I could get sleep yeah so stop
using alarm go to bed very early eat
right workout you you will be absolutely
startled by how many problems that
solves that's awesome I have a follow-up
question please so I feel like there's
three types of waking up there is the
without an alarm there is the Saturday
morning you slept in you got all the
sleep you need it and you just wake up
there's the I'm really excited about
something and
I wake up and then there is the I'm
really stressed about something and so I
wake up which of those three do you find
yourself most often Oh
most often yeah well it really is
cyclical so I'll go through phases where
and it might be a week two weeks where I
am [__] stressed and I'm just like
whoa there's a lot going on and for
whatever reason I don't feel good about
my either how much I'm accomplishing or
that I have the answer of how to
accomplish and so that'll like wake me
up the one that so to address all three
so there's that one goes and cycles the
other one I'm excited to get up that's
probably the one that I spend the most
time in and then I just got enough sleep
that one to me is the the image that
come to mind is like it fills in all the
cracks of the bricks in the wall between
being stressed and being excited so and
I'll clock those is the days where I get
seven or more hours so that's relatively
rare for me and the the irony is that
I'm gonna get less sleep on the weekends
than I do in the week because on the
weekends it's the double whammy of I let
myself go to bed late but your your body
clock is weird your I find it's way
easier to like push my schedule late
even though I'm gonna wake up at the
same time so if I normally I'd say my
schedule is anywhere from like 3:00 to
5:00 a.m. I'm still gonna wake up at
5:00 even if I go to bed at midnight or
1:00 so routinely on like a Friday night
I'll get four hours sleep so actually
it's more true on a Saturday because
usually fried if I've had like a really
long week I'm you know still like 10:00
10:30 I'm still going to bed whereas on
a Saturday I might say up to one or two
but I'm still gonna wake up at like five
to six and so at that point you know I'm
getting like four hours sleep so you're
actually catching up during the week on
your sleep yeah yeah cuz I I definitely
like my all the bright lines and stuff
that I talk about like if I'm awake I'm
either working or working out that is a
Monday through Friday thing
so on the weekends I still work but I
only do work that's pleasurable I
prioritize time with my wife
especially in Saturday's so it's like
there's it's a different set of rules
for the weekend that I don't often go
into but interesting all right I think
we should give away a couple copies that
I think it was a very good idea this is
her book unstoppable it's brand new you
can win it
we'll give a copy away on YouTube we'll
give a copy away on Facebook
why don't you post in the comments what
you learned from the interview from
reassure Toba something specific and
we'll choose one in each we'll give you
the book nice send it to you I like that
alright let's see here so I want to talk
about her competitiveness it seems she
has this instinctive competitive edge
and it seems like it comes naturally to
her she's used it very powerfully in her
career do you think people who aren't
naturally competitive should try to
cultivate that quality definitively
without question right now start
immediately as a kid because I always
felt weak and stupid I never tried to be
competitive in fact the only thing that
I was ever really competitive about was
putting on my seat belt faster than
anybody else because they didn't know
they were playing so if I won I would
announce that we were playing the game
and if I lost them we just weren't
playing like that really contextualized
me for a minute
in terms of what I was like as a kid and
how far I've come from that which I
really want people to understand that so
that they recognized that like wherever
they're at and I don't care if you're 65
like wherever you're at
there's always time to change your
behavior to be more advantageous right
and that's that's how to think of it it
is not invalidating your life up to that
point there's always a more advantageous
way to be in every day I'm trying to be
a little bit better and more efficient
more advantageous so I hope that people
see I did not start as like this guy
he's gonna be the guy that goes on to be
successful it was just I was so deeply
unsatisfied with where I was I could get
better so I think that one of the things
that I've cultivated is that competitive
drive and to really like
which by the way one of the things that
really brought this out me was video
games playing first-person shooters and
knowing I'm playing against real people
and I remember when internet was like
not great I like never quite could
figure out how people are playing
against other people on my internet
speed wasn't fast enough to really do it
so like my first sort of stumbly forays
into that we're very awkward and I was
like this is dumb I don't know why
people do this and so I just kept
playing against a computer computer
computer and then I don't remember what
made me go like I really want to try
this I want to play against the other
people and so I tried it and I fell in
love because by then I had a growth
mindset and by then I thought wait a
second I'm really really bad you can't
imagine how bad I was where it was like
at first all I was trying to do was not
panic when I saw another player on my
radar okay like not even you can't even
see him on your screen just seeing that
they were getting close to me would
create this like sense of panic and so I
thought hey this is a great way to
practice like getting out of the
sympathetic nervous system into the
parasympathetic nervous system and then
it was like I'm really bad at this and
it's quite embarrassing and they do
what's called tea bagging in video games
where their little character literally
if you know when tea bagging is there
their tea bagging your dead corpse right
and I and it would like really wind me
up and so I'm like mother [__] so then
it was like okay how do I just not get
annoyed at that and how do I like
practice get better like keep my calm
and all the sudden I was like this is
all the things that I've spent learning
in business this is a proxy for it's a
real person they're being flagrant
they're being cruel they're being
dismissive and like all the things that
are gonna trigger you in a business
setting yeah like hey here's my
opportunity one to not let it get under
my skin because it diminishes my
performance so practice not letting it
get to me
to practice getting out of the
sympathetic into the parasympathetic and
then remember you can get better at
anything and so watching myself by
practicing and saying hey this is what
I'm gonna do and I remember I once got
randomly paired with this guy and he
were talking and I don't remember why
but he was like oh I have this dot on
the
center of my TV and I'm like why have a
dot on the center of your TV and he said
I'm trying to get better as a sniper and
I need to memorize right where that when
you pull the aim button right where it's
gonna be so that I know how to like
where the to put the person's head so
that it's a headshot and kill and I was
like dude you are my kind of guy like
you're not just playing tonight you're
practicing and I said full respect for
that so anyway yes triggering like
learning things like competitiveness can
be really really advantageous there is a
whole slew of them which I should
probably write down that's one of them
how can it be dangerous
well anything that you let corrode you
anything where it's like you're not
advancing fast enough that you can't
have fun unless you win where I hear
people say like I won't even play a game
if I can't win why the [__]
like that doesn't even make sense to me
yeah I don't understand that so winning
is is awesome winning especially in sort
of the context of life is I think
important but it's a little crazy to me
people that can't control their emotions
and so they can't even go into a game
where it's like oh I might lose and
they're so wound up like how then do you
ever get good like do you only play the
things where it's like you're already
the best person or do you find people
that are weaker than you like it it's a
losing strategy right to only go against
people that you can beat it's like Maria
Sharapova playing against kids that were
older than her all the time all the time
is upping her game and you hear that a
lot like kids that had older brothers
and it was like man by the time I was
actually playing with you know football
with kids my own age was like Jesus this
is easy or boxers you know same thing
it's like god I was always fighting with
my older brothers in fact I think that
Sugar Ray Leonard had exactly that story
if I remember right he was like the
youngest and so it was like god I'm
getting slapped around and admittedly
I'm hoping that you're not is that I'm
not miss remembering this but that that
seems right and so it was like by the
time I was fighting kids my own age I
could just manhandle them I was like
yeah but if he had been like oh I don't
want to do this because my brothers are
bigger and stronger than me then which
would have been my tactic by the way
yeah it's just that that is but one of
I'm sure multiple ways that it can be
dangerous did you ever play video games
with the person back in
day that would turn the game off right
before they lost do you ever have that
no but people do that in destiny don't
drop offline if they're losing they're
like there's no way we can win
yeah because they don't I don't know if
it and I'm not even sure if this would
works but I don't know if they think it
keeps it from because you there's you
get an elo score dude that's how they
rank chess champions so inch I don't in
chess
it's like based on who you've beat who
they've beat and so like if you beat
them like by proxy then like you've beat
other people and so like it all adds up
to this yellow score and there's like a
way where you get points or lose points
I don't remember I looked this up once
cuz it really mattered to me for a red
hot minute when I first started like
really trying to be competitive at
destiny and I was obsessed like what's
my elo score is it going up or is it
going down but then I just realized
within the limited amount of time I get
myself to play it really getting a good
elo score I'd have to really dedicate
myself and I was just like hey I'm not
gonna do that so I stopped looking at it
but so yeah that that stuff is it's
amazing how detailed all that gets one I
don't remember why I brought up yellow
scoring to you because you were saying
that people turn they drop off line yeah
so I don't know if they're thinking that
it stops them from taking a hit but I
think you take it anyway interesting I
want to go deeper into you the notion
that repetition leads to discipline and
really give your thoughts on this the
relationship between those two things
and then if there's a hack
that will help you create more
discipline so here's how I think that
they go together you need a little bit
of one to get the other so I'd really
have to stop and think about like what's
that catch-22 in fact I already know the
answer so if you don't have at least a
little bit of discipline to start really
pushing yourself in the repetition
you're not excited enough about the
thing that awaits you right so she loved
tennis so she wanted to get good at
tennis she loved winning so she wanted
to make sure that she was winning at
tennis so that gave her that impetus
that she needed to do the repetition but
then the more you do it the better you
get at it and so recently a lot of
people have been asking me about ad D
and the way that I have combated my
might
I won't I don't know that I actually
have ad
but for sure especially when I'm dealing
with contracts I'd like my attention
just wants to go everywhere everywhere
everywhere and I found in the beginning
dude I here's what's hard about
contracts and this is what makes me want
to punch lawyers like as an ecosystem
they're an entire paragraph this long of
like small [__] font will be a single
sentence yeah with parentheticals and
like weird words that you've never heard
before and I'm like guys you're [__]
stressing my working memory here so
working memory is the things that you
can hold like in your head is how we
think of it I can hold it in my head
while I do the math or while I read the
contract and uh if it were more than two
lines I couldn't and my attention with
wonder and I would find myself reading
this same sentence over and over and so
finally I was like as soon as I noticed
my attention is wanted to bring it back
bring it back bring you back and then it
was like oh I can do three sentence or
three lines oh I can do four oh I can do
a whole paragraph oh I can do the
paragraph look up the word come back
still know where I'm at still hold it
all in my head and I was like whoa that
when I think back to what it was like
when I first started reading contracts
it is in sanity so that's just from oh
I've wondered come back I've wandered
come back and the more you force
yourself repetition to do that over and
over and over suddenly you just realize
oh the like the duration of time before
I have the impulse to either stop or
that I've noticed that I've drifted off
and I'm thinking about something else
they just get longer and longer and
longer and to a hack perspective so with
contracts it's very different so I won't
say that this works for tennis but with
contracts headphones a certain type of
music that has like a certain like
driving tempo no lyrics and furrowing my
brow all of that [__] arrows me in on
what I'm trying to do now if I were
gonna be doing tennis I would do similar
things with throwing my brow I tilt my
chin down which is weird I didn't notice
that until I did it to you to replicate
what I normally do which I find how I
hold my head really affects my
meditation really just throwing some
weird [__] out there right now so like
this versus this will affect me
dramatically differently when I meditate
in terms of like a sense of peace and
calm yeah
actually heard meditation guides say
like make sure yeah I bring your chin
down
really yeah I've never [__] heard
that but that is so my experience I do
guided meditations so they'll walk you
through Ling mode your back this way
yeah weird that's really where I'm super
freaked out right now so I don't know
why I don't know why I've also just
randomly while we're talking about head
position I've heard if you're in a dream
and you wake up but you want to get back
to the dream stay in the exact position
that you were laying in well let's go no
no not a dream guys you don't want to
get back and you have good point so
that's yeah so there was a second part
to the repetition thing you're going to
the brain hacks hacks so that was that
cool so you have lawyers to think as
well then it sounds like Jarrod I so
respect that framing and I'm so grateful
for that yes they've made me stronger
there you go do you know what horny
ceases know a little bit of toxicity is
usually good for the system okay
the dose makes the poison right so
there's actually a curve or vaccines
yeah I think so I'm not a hundred
percent that that's how vaccines work
just because I'm ignorant to that but
that sounds right from the limited
amount that I know about vaccines where
they give you like a weakened version
that might be a little different because
of the the immune system recognizes it
and it's too [__] weak to put up a
fight
whereas like if you spray a little bit
of Roundup on a plant which will [__]
annihilate it at bigger doses so you'd
think well it should be toxic at any
dose at a low dose the plane or plant
less you grow more so it's but it has to
be like a really low dose so do they use
I think this is an example that's often
used for oh and this one I know fasting
fasting is used as an example for me
sees too much you die but just enough
and you're you go into this what they
call a hermetic effect where your body
goes in and evaluates cells and goes can
I break this one apart so I'm not
getting anything into the system so you
look a little old you look you have
senescence you maybe you're precancerous
so [__] you you're not good for the
system I'm gonna break you apart and use
your constituent parts for something
else so that's
one of the reasons that fasting is so
awesome and people should do more
fasting please understand the difference
between fasting and being anorexic which
are very different things and yeah
anorexia is like a real [__] thing
and I have nothing but compassion and
empathy for people that are in anorexia
but that's a whole another conversation
yeah alright we have a few minutes left
so I want to give away our books at this
time we'll or someone can we choose
someone from YouTube only because the
YouTube comments disappear after the
live so I want to make sure that we
acknowledge that they've one find the
right person choose someone the the
question was something that you learned
from the episode from Maria be specific
and we will send you this book we'll
make sure to connect with you on YouTube
and also Facebook as well we're gonna
choose one winner there so okay all
right my final question I guess or we'll
see how many we get through art is
around her notion of when she enters the
tennis court like her mental state
changes when she goes into the locker
room that is her office and that really
resonated with me both from a
perspective of like having played sports
and I know like you sort of get into a
different mental state when you go and
to go onto the field or wherever it is
and also in the way that I think about
my job right now and I we've talked
about this a little bit like I come in I
have a different work mode than I do
play mode or a home mode right and but
you seem to be much more fluid with work
in life so I wanted to get your thoughts
on that yeah can 100% but reframe the
question what are you actually asking me
I want to know first of all what are
your thoughts on that of her sort of
having those very two black-and-white
different states because it resonates
with me but I don't think it's something
that you employ very much with work
correct so they're like very much so I'm
indifferent my wife would vehemently
disagree right now so she would say you
definitely have work mode so between I
may not so much between work and play
but I do between
leader and husband so that that those
are wildly different for me and that's
actually really fun I'm sort of in my
head putting myself in her shoes in fact
she just wandered over because she's
like look [__] you better tell
some truth right now yeah so those are
very very different and she'll one of
the things that she hits me up with on
the weekend is you're in work mode right
now and and I will say that work mode
for me is marked by deadly efficiency
yeah and it's one thing I don't think
people realize about me like my [__]
obsession with efficiency and I'm so
putting myself in your shoes right now I
know there are times where I'm having
what my wife would call a waffle like
where it's a like I just want to hear
what's going on in people's lives we're
joking around we're on a tangent but
that is because I think that is one of
the most important things that you can
have in a company you have to have real
bonds based on emotion and I learned
that lesson the hard way so that to me
is is really critical and as a part of
being an efficient team is that but like
when it comes to if we were talking
about something and I know that we're
pressed for time or whatever holy [__]
like the only thing that stops me from
from just like dude get to the point is
that I know I damaged relationships but
like inside my head I'm like oh god like
we are [__] pressed for time boys and
girls we need to move and so my wife
knows me so well that like the slightest
like twitch at the corner of my eye and
should be she feels it so that's what
she's like stop trying to like her whole
thing she likes to tell really [__]
long stories people must be like jumping
out of their skin like [__] you
tell the longest leave ever but like
with the most tangents but on the like
weekend if I'm like I'm giving my wife
that look like okay I get it like get to
the point she she reminds me that's work
mode it's very ok in work mode it's very
much not okay in play so I think it's
relatively inevitable that anybody
that's really trying to play at a high
level is gonna have different modes one
thing I would encourage you as the
hardest to read human on the planet I've
never encountered a human being more
difficult to read than you like one
thing that would benefit you I think is
actually bringing
or a little more play mode to the table
yeah because you're a team and seeing
that your team especially dude when like
if you're riding them really hard and
they don't have a connection to you as
like the the surfer Jared who like loves
it and I bet has really [__]
fascinating thoughts when you see a
dolphin and like you know and but really
right so that they feel like they know a
different side of you and every now and
then when something really catches you
off-guard and you [__] do that laughs
that like patented Jared laughs where I
can tell like you were so surprised by
whatever just happened and you you
straight guffaw yeah it I love seeing
that and it definitely makes me feel
more connected to you for sure cool so
that that ended up being a super weird
response to that but it's weird but
helpful for me thanks for which is
Jared's nightmare by the way no you're
not a big fan of public feedback right
if I remember correctly from our
captivate time yeah this feels different
I don't know why okay yeah cool so
connected to the community you guys so
okay we got to give this book away and
wrap it up will will has slacked me the
winners we have Robert Ramirez from
YouTube Robert Ramirez you won a stop a
bowl yes please email connected impact
Theory comm so that we can connect with
you and get your address so we can send
this to you because we actually have the
books in-house and then do we have one
for Facebook or will connect with them
later
anyone kids well we have one for
Facebook Facebook since we can hold on
to your comments we'll find you later
yeah let's see someone will hit you up
yep we're gonna wrap it up now all right
awesome guys thank you so much for
joining us this has been a lot of fun as
always man I'm grateful to you for the
questions and all the work you do coming
into the episodes absolutely fantastic
so thank you and guys reminder about the
contest so in the description right now
is a link be sure you send your friends
to that get them to subscribe to the
channel and then leave your name in the
comments of that video and the more
people you get to do that the more
entries you have
into the contest which is gonna be going
till October 13th so keep sending keep
sending keep sending that would be
amazing amazing and I'll be in New York
this coming Thursday and hopefully I
will see any of you New Yorkers there we
will be posting the location on my
Facebook page so keep your eyes peeled
and if you're interested go to the
Eventbrite what do we call that link I
guess I don't know a better word for it
and let us know that you're gonna be
there cuz that's going to determine the
venue alright guys if you haven't
already be sure to subscribe and until
next time my friends be legendary
take care
[Music]
[Applause]